also in the first year of Darius the
Mede I even I stood up to confirm and
strengthen him and now I will tell you
the truth behold three more Kings will
arise in Persia and the fourth shall be
far richer than them all by his strength
through his riches he shall stir up all
against the realm of Greece then a
mighty king shall arise who shall rule
with great dominion and do according to
his will and when he has arisen his
kingdom shall be broken up and divided
toward the four winds of heaven but not
among his posterity nor according to his
Dominion with which he ruled for his
kingdom shall be uprooted even for
others besides these also the King of
the South shall become strong as well as
one of his Prince's and he shall gain
power over him and have dominion his
Dominion shall be a great Dominion and
at the end of some years they shall join
forces for the daughter of the King of
the South shall go to the king of the
north to make an agreement but she shall
not retain the power of her Authority
and neither he nor his authority shall
stand but she shall be given up with
those who brought her and with him who
begot her and with him who strengthened
her in those times
but from a branch of her roots one shall
arise in his place who shall come with
an army enter the fortress of the king
of the north and deal with them and
prevail and he shall also carry their
gods captive to Egypt with their princes
and their precious articles of silver
and gold and he shall continue more
years than the king of the north also
the king of the north shall come to the
kingdom of the king of the south but
shall return to his own land however his
sons shall stir up strife and assemble a
multitude of great forces and one shall
certainly come and overwhelm and pass
through then he shall return to his
fortress and stir up strife and the King
of the South shall be moved with rage
and go out and fight within with the
king of the north who shall muster a
great multitude but the multitude shall
be given into the hand of his enemy when
he has taken away the multitude his
heart will be lifted up and he will cast
down tens of thousands but he will not
prevail for the king of the north will
return and muster a multitude greater
than the former and shall certainly come
at the end of some years with a great
army and much equipment now in those
times many shall rise up against the
king of the south also violent men of
yore
people shall exalt themselves in
fulfillment of the vision but they shall
fall so the king of the north shall come
and build a siege mound and take a
fortified city and the forces of the
South shall not withstand him even his
choice troops shall have no strength to
resist but he who comes against him
shall do according to his own will and
no one shall stand against him he shall
stand in the glorious land with
destruction in his power he shall also
set his face to enter with the strength
of his whole kingdom and upright ones
with him thus shall he do and he shall
give him the daughter of women to
destroy it but she shall not stand with
him or be for him after this he shall
turn his face to the coastlands and
shall take many but a ruler shall bring
the reproach against them to an end and
with the reproach removed he shall turn
back on him then he shall turn his face
toward the fortress of his own land but
he shall stumble and fall and not be
found there shall arise in his place one
who imposes taxes on the glorious
Kingdom but within a few days he shall
be destroyed but not in anger or in
battle
and in his place shall arise a vile
person to whom they will not give the
honor of royalty but he shall come in
peaceably and seize the kingdom by
intrigue with the force of a flood they
shall be swept away from before him and
be broken and also the prints of the
Covenant and after the league is made
with him he shall act deceitfully for he
shall come up and become strong with a
small number of people he shall enter
peaceably even into the richest places
of the province and he shall do what his
fathers have not done nor his
forefathers he shall dispersed among
them the plunder spoil and riches and he
shall divide his plans against the
strongholds but only for a time he shall
stir up his power and his courage
against the king of the south with a
great army and the King of the South
shall be stirred up to battle with a
very great and mighty army but he shall
not stand for they shall devise plans
against him yes those who eat of the
portion of his delicacies shall destroy
him his army shall be swept away and
many shall fall down slain both these
Kings hearts shall be bent on evil and
they shall speak lies at the same table
but it shall not prosper for the end
will still be at the appointed time
while returning to his land with great
riches his heart shall be moved against
the holy Covenant so he shall do damage
and return to his own
and at the appointed time he shall
return and go toward the south but it
shall not be like the former or the
latter for ships from Cyprus shall come
against him therefore he shall be
grieved and returned in rage against the
holy Covenant and do damage so he shall
return and show regard for those who
forsake the holy Covenant and forces
shall be mustered by him and they shall
defile the sanctuary fortress then they
shall take away the daily sacrifices and
placed there the abomination of
desolation those who do wickedly against
the covenant he shall corrupt with
flattery but the people who know their
God shall be strong and carry out great
exploits and those of the people who
understand shall instruct many yet for
many days they shall fall by sword and
flame by captivity and plundering now
when they fall they shall be aided with
a little help but many shall join with
them by intrigue and some of those of
understanding shall fall to refine them
purify them and make them white until
the time of the end because it is still
for the appointed time
then the King shall do according to his
own will he shall exalt and magnify
himself above every God shall speak
blasphemies against the God of gods and
shall prosper till the wrath has been
accomplished for what has been
determined shall be done
he shall regard neither the god of his
father's nor the desire of women nor
regard any God for he shall exalt
himself above them all but in their
place
he shall honor a God of fortresses and a
God which his fathers did not know he
shall honor with gold and silver with
precious stones and pleasant things thus
he shall act against the strongest
fortresses with the foreign God which he
shall acknowledge and advance its glory
and he shall cause them to rule over
many and divide the land for gain at the
time of the end the King of the South
shall attack him and the king of the
north shall come against him like a
whirlwind with chariots horsemen and
with many ships and he shall enter the
countries overwhelm them and pass
through he shall also enter the glorious
land and many countries shall be
overthrown but these shall escape from
his hand
Edom Moab and the prominent people of
Ammon he shall stretch out his hand
against the countries and the land of
Egypt shall not escape he shall have
power over the treasures of gold and
silver and over all the precious things
of Egypt also the Libyans and Ethiopians
shall follow at his heels
but news from the east and the North
shall trouble him therefore he shall go
out with great fury to destroy and
annihilate many and he shall plant the
tents of his palace between the Seas and
the glorious holy mountain yet he shall
come to his end and no one will help